In this final example, we're going to show
how to use the brush argument in the UI
and the brushedPoints argument in the
server to generate an interactive graphic.
And in this case what we're going to
do is highlight points and then
show in a scattered plot, and then show
the fitted line just for those points.
Okay, so this is a nice example of
interactive graphics which I think is one
of the key functionalities of Shiny and
one of its primary uses for
those of us that are more
on the analysis side.
Okay, so let's get right.
Okay, so once again I've copied the code
from the R mark down document and
I'm just going to go through
the various lines, and
then hopefully you'll get the gist, but
I'd like you at home also to try it out.
It only takes a second to copy
the code and run the text, and
I think you'll see a lot more by doing it
yourself, than by having me describe it.
So once again we're going to have
the standard layout, side bar and
in the side panel it's going to
have a display of the Slope,
slopeOut, Intercept, intOut.
So the textOutput (intOut),
we're going to be looking for
that label from the server function,
textOutput (slopeOut),
we're going to looking for
that label from the Shiny server.
Okay, so we got to remember to have both
those, otherwise they won't display right.
And then we want plotOutput, plot1.
We got to make sure that
we're getting the plotOutput,
that we're creating a plot
in the server labeled plot1.
And here is the id brush = brush1.
That label we're going to need
to use that on the server side.
And this brush = and
then brushOpts for the brush options.
Okay, now let's look at the server.
So the Shiny server, input,
takes in input and output lists, okay?
Now, it's going to create a model.
The model is going to be reactive.
It's going to be reactive to the data,
okay?
So this is going to be reactive as we
input new things from the user interface,
this is going to change, okay?
So, and remember it has this notation
of being inside the curly braces
also inside the parentheses for
the reactive function, okay?
brushed_data is just
going to be short hand for
grabbing the data from brush1, okay?
So here's our input, input$brush1, okay?
And our brush points are going to
be from the dataset, trees, okay?
The xvar is going to be Girth,
yvar is going to be Volume, okay?
And this will create a little
data frame with Girth and Volume.
And if it's null, I'm sorry,
if there's fewer than two points,
then it's just going to return null, okay?
And then otherwise,
It's going to fit a linear,
it fit in return a linear model
where Volume is the y variable,
Girth is the x variable, and
the data here is that brushed_data, okay?
And then we don't need to put
a parentheses here because this is inside
the reactive statement, okay?
The data is going to be that brushed_data
and this will output that linear model.
Now, if that model is fit or
output$slopeOut,
remember we're looking for
some text with that label.
Okay, here's our renderText telling
Shiny that this is going to be text,
this is going to be rendered
in the user interface.
We've got our curly braces, okay?
And if it's null then it's just
going to say, No Model Found.
Otherwise it's going to say,
it's going to grab the slope term.
Okay, and then same thing for
the intercept.
So the same discussion but it's
going to grab the intercept term, okay?
And here's plot1 which we need to display.
And that's going to be renderPlot, okay?
And it has the reactive notation of having
the curly braces there inside the function
argument.
And it's going to be plot(trees$Girth,
trees$Volume).
So, Girth is x, Volume is y,
it's got nice x labels and y labels, okay?
It's got a title,
it says Tree Measurements.
Let's go down here and
just see if the model is not null,
then it's going to add a line.
Just now,
because it's through the model, right?
Through the model, that was fit just
on the point scribe from the brush.
It's going to fit the line, it's
going to plot the line that is only for
those specific data points.
Okay, great.
All right, now,
let's run it and see how it looks.
Okay, I ran the app.
Okay, so now see no model has been fit,
so it is correctly saying,
No Model Found for the Slope, and
No Model Found for the Intercept.
Okay, so
if I highlight this cluster of points,
that’s the line that you would fit and
it gives you the slope and the intercept.
But if I were to grab all of those, that's
the line that and that's the intercept.
Let's grab over here where there's
no point, see what happens.
Okay, it correctly says,
No Model Found and No Model Found.
And if you do the whole thing, everything
except that last point, there it goes.
Let's see if we can get the whole thing,
there we go.
That would be the line that you'd fit
if you grabbed all the data points.
Okay, so this is a nice little interactive
graph that you can create using Shiny.
And I'd like you to go ahead and
try to recreate this example, but
then also maybe try to create your own
example of interactive graph using one of
R's default, kind of canned data sets.
And I think this is one of
the primary uses for Shiny.
And I think at this point,
you should also have enough to go on
to start making Shiny useful for you.
And there's a lot of other things you
can do with Shiny, such as input and
output data sets, data frames.
You can actually embed RGL, RS 3D graphics
library in a Shiny webpage using WebGL.
But that stuff's maybe a little bit
more fringy, especially the RGL stuff.
Right now, I think you have enough to
get started, and I think you should
definitely should give Shiny a try, and
work it into your standard toolbox.